DOCSUP-824: query log (#115)
BayoNet/ClickHouse: docs/en/operations/system-tables.md

## system.query\_log {#system_tables-query_log}

> ClickHouse creates this table only if the [query\_log](server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-query-log) server parameter is specified. This parameter sets the logging rules, such as the `logging interval` or the name of the table, where the queries will be logged in. This table contains an information about an execution of all the queries. 

Author: ```suggestion
Contains information about executed queries.

To log queries you need to:

1. Configure [query_log](server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-query-log) server parameters
2. Set [log_queries](settings/settings.md#settings-log-queries] to 1.
```

!!! note "Note"
    The table doesn’t contain input data for `INSERT` queries.

Each query creates one or two rows in the `query_log` table, depending on the status of the query:

1.  If the query execution was successful, two events with types 1 and 2 are created (see the `type` column).
2.  If an error occurred during query processing, two events with types 1 and 4 are created.
3.  If an error occurred before launching the query, a single event with type 3 is created.

> By default, logs are added into the table divided by the intervals in 7.5 seconds. You can set this interval in the [query\_log](server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-query-log) server setting (see the `flush_interval_milliseconds` parameter). To flush the logs forcibly from the memory buffer into the table, use the `SYSTEM FLUSH LOGS` query.

Author: ```suggestion
By default, logs are added into the table with interval of 7.5 seconds. You can change this interval in the ``flush_interval_milliseconds` parameter of the [query_log](server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-query-log) server settings section. To force flushing logs, use the [SYSTEM FLUSH LOGS](../sql-reference/statements/system.md##query_language-system-flush_logs) query.
```

> When the table is deleted manually, it will be automatically created on the fly. Note that all the previous logs will be deleted.

Author: ```suggestion
If you delete the table manually from storage, ClickHouse server recreates it on the fly. All the previous logs are deleted with the table files.
```

!!! note "Note"
    The storage period for logs is unlimited. Logs aren’t automatically deleted from the table. You need to organize the removal of outdated logs yourself.

You can specify an arbitrary partitioning key for the `system.query_log` table in the [query\_log](server-configuration-parameters/settings.md#server_configuration_parameters-query-log) server setting (see the `partition_by` parameter).

The `system.query_log` table registers two kinds of queries:

1.  Initial queries that were run directly by the client.
2.  Child queries that were initiated by other queries (for distributed query execution). For these types of queries, information about the parent queries is shown in the `initial_*` columns.

> Here are the parametres of each query:  

Author: Move this section beneath the first sentence of the topic.
